# Load 3D OBJ and MTL File Format

## OBJ

- OBJ is a simple 3D format first developed by **Wavefront Technologies**. It's one of the most widely adopted 3D file formats and is used to define the geometry of an object.
- An OBJ file is usually generated by CAD (Computer Aided Design) software as an end product of the 3D modeling process.
- The file extension corresponding to the OBJ file format is simply “.OBJ”.
- The most important difference between the OBJ file format and the others is OBJ does not support scene information or animations, while FBX and COLLADA do.
- Therefore, if you need animations for your game or movie, then you’re better off using the FBX and COLLADA formats. The OBJ file format is a simple and open format with wide export and import support among CAD software.
- This means if you share your 3D model as an OBJ file, it’s extremely likely that other CAD software will interpret it correctly and consistently.
- As example the popular software that support .obj format are Blender, Autodesk, MeshLab etc.
- Here is the .obj file look likes [butterfly.obj](butterfly.obj)
  <br>

```js
// ! OBJ
var obj_loader = new THREE.OBJLoader();
var obj_mesh;
obj_loader.load("./butterfly.obj", function (object) {
  var material = new THREE.MeshLambertMaterial({ color: 0xfff000 });

  object.children.forEach(function (child) {
    child.material = material;
    child.material.side = THREE.DoubleSide;
    child.geometry.computeFaceNormals();
    child.geometry.computeVertexNormals();
  });

  object.scale.set(140, 140, 140);
  object.position.z = 40;

  obj_mesh = object;
  scene.add(object);
});
```

- Butterfly obj without THREE.Material
  ...
- Butterfly obj with THREE.Material
  ...
  <br>
- The result of obj file is geometry with flat material. So we need to give it manually in javascript to make it colorfull. Here we use THREE.MeshLambertMaterial with yellow color.
- Because the object that we have loaded is a group of meshes, we have to loop through all the meshes to give it a material that we want.

## MTL

- The Material Template Library format (MTL) or .MTL File Format is a companion file format to .OBJ, also defined by Wavefront Technologies, that describes surface shading (material) properties of objects within one or more .OBJ files.
- A .OBJ file references one or more .MTL files (called "material libraries"), and from there, references one or more material descriptions by name.
- .MTL files are ASCII text that define the light reflecting properties of a surface for the purposes of computer rendering, and according to the Phong reflection model.
- The standard has widespread support among different computer software packages, making it a useful format for interchange of materials.
- Because the OBJ file format won’t let you store color and texture information, it makes up for this by allowing the storage of this information in thi file format. By using these two files together, it is possible to render a multi-color textured model.
- It will aply similar behavior with THREE.Material
- Here is the .mtl file look likes [butterfly.mtl](butterfly.mtl)

```js
// ! OBJMTL
var objmtl_loader = new THREE.OBJMTLLoader();
var objmtl_mesh;
objmtl_loader.load("./butterfly.obj", "./butterfly.mtl", function (object) {
  // configure the wings
  var wing2 = object.children[5].children[0];
  var wing1 = object.children[4].children[0];

  wing1.material.opacity = 0.6;
  wing1.material.transparent = true;
  wing1.material.depthTest = false;
  wing1.material.side = THREE.DoubleSide;

  wing2.material.opacity = 0.6;
  wing2.material.transparent = true;
  wing2.material.depthTest = false;
  wing2.material.side = THREE.DoubleSide;

  object.scale.set(140, 140, 140);
  object.position.z = -40;

  objmtl_mesh = object;
  scene.add(objmtl_mesh);
});
```

- Butterfly obj with butterfly.mtl
  ...
  <br>
- The material of the .mtl file is using the texture and color from .png file [butterfly.png](butterfly.png)

# Load Collada File Format
